hello everyone I'm pleased to announce
my new tour for
2024 beginning in early February and
running through June Tammy and I an
assortment of special guests are going
to visit 51 cities in the US you can
find out more information about this on
my website
jordanbpeterson.com as well as accessing
all relevant ticketing information I'm
going to use the tour to walk through
some of the ideas I've been working on
my forthcoming book out November 2024 we
who wrestle with God I'm looking forward
to this I'm thrilled to be able to do it
again and I'll be pleased to see all of
you again soon
bye-bye it's interesting because I hear
entrepreneurs speak of this often how if
you want to stand out you know be
willing to work for free or show some
value that you're trying to make an
offering man and while that is common
advice I actually see a shockingly few
amount of people actually go out and
implement it and even when they do the
way they go about it is often
wrong in my opinion if you want
something from someone you should put
yourself in a position where the easiest
thing for them to say is
[Music]
yes hello everybody today I have the
opportunity to speak with Derek a social
media influencer Canadian social media
influencer there are a few of us he runs
a YouTube website a famous one more
plates more dates he's also a Serial
entrepreneur who runs three companies
Merck Health which is an organization
that I use Guerilla mind and intelligent
shop and so what did we discuss well we
discussed how Derek transformed himself
and made himself successful over a
multi-year period but really starting
intensely in 2016 how he became a
blogger how that transformed into a
YouTube career how that rearranged his
relationships with women and with people
in the social environment more generally
how that opened up the marketplace for
him how that helped him become
financially successful to look for
entrepreneurial activities and and what
that meant for him psychologically and
and interpersonally and financially and
so um and on the way we talk about
issues pertaining to men's mental and
physical health on all sorts of
different fronts uh most particularly
because this is where Derek started with
regard to the facilitation of
Performance and Physical Fitness but
also with fourways into the broader
issues of motivation enthusiasm and
confidence and so join us for that well
thanks very much for coming in today
yeah absolutely flew in from Vancouver
yep and that's where you're based yeah
born and
raised so why don't you start by telling
everybody who's watching and listening
what you're up to like and and how you
got to the place that you are so we'll
start with a imagine that people don't
know anything about you let's start with
that okay my name is Derek and I I guess
most people know me for my YouTube
channel more plates more dates it
started back in
2016 um I went to a university in
British Columbia did an undergrad and uh
business administration
and kind of irrelevant and useless for
what I'm doing now but that was my
beginnings and through that I thought I
was going to become an accountant or
some typical you know business oriented
position downtown Vancouver or something
of that nature and I was actually
bouncing downtown and I got injured and
while I was injured I started writing
blog articles online about my fitness
journey I suppose cuz I was very into
bodybuilding at a young age Ag and
essentially enthralled in the science of
human optimization and biology and
through that I had accumulated a decent
amount of knowledge at that point that I
felt useful enough to impart to um
whoever was interested in reading and at
the time WordPress blogs were actually a
fairly reasonable way of getting
information out there so I started
writing on a on a Blog more plates.com
and it was essentially named after
at the time in uh my early 20s something
that was catchy memorable Encompass what
I
was I felt my content oriented around at
the time
self-improvement um Fitness Etc and as
it went on it sort of evolved into a
pretty uh it was snowballing and
popularity especially the YouTube
channel as I started to accumulate more
viewers and when when did the channel
start uh March 2016 2016 and how long
after the blog how after long after you
began the blog was that so technically I
started the blog in March I believe and
I probably waited about a month or two
to publish my first YouTube video or it
might have been a couple months before
that it's actually I don't remember the
exact dat in my first article but
they're pretty pretty close together in
time yeah essentially I had somebody who
was at the time you know uh big name in
the like manosphere red pill Community
who's like a self Improvement guy tell
me you should be publishing everywhere
which was good advice even at the time
too I said okay who was that uh his name
was uh Victor Pride it was like a fake
pseudonym for what Pride that's pretty
good all right so he was pretty popular
at the time and he said you should be
publishing everywhere uh why aren't you
why do you listen because he was
successful and see yeah but that doesn't
answer the question because lots of
people are successful and they will tell
people what to do or suggest it or offer
an example but that doesn't mean people
listen yeah right so so okay you you
recognized his success he was a trusted
Authority in the niche that I was
publishing in so for me the path forward
it seemed most reasonable to replicate a
blueprint set by those that have shown
it to be whatever they did a successful
path themselves okay so why do you think
okay so fair enough that's a good answer
so and efficiency because writing is
just infinitely more time consuming than
than YouTube yeah right right right okay
okay so so now you got good advice from
someone who hypothetically knew what
they were doing but you know one of the
things I've noticed that constitutes an
impediment for people when they hope to
progress is that they won't swallow
evidence of their own stupidity and move
because to to pay attention to something
like that you have to make allowance for
the fact that you've actually run into
someone who knows more than you do and
people will often offer lip service to
that but that doesn't mean they'll
actually pay attention so what do you
think it was that made you sufficiently
motivated to now you said you know there
was an efficiency issue with YouTube you
obviously interested in this topic but
but you but you put everything into
practice and relatively rapidly so any
internal obstacles to that or were you
just enthusiastic and gung-ho to go and
if you were why were you I suppose I had
an inordinate inordinate amount of free
time on my hands because of my injury at
the time yeah yeah so to me it felt like
I was doing myself a disservice by not
publishing on every medium by which I
could get the most eyeballs on it and I
had a sense of impending like traffic
bottleneck when it comes to blogging so
as we've seen more recently anyone who
essentially stayed on just written
articles only
has more or less been phased out of
relevancy and has not able to get the
same eyeballs they once did on yeah well
the the online communication environment
is very Dynamic and not only do you have
to be good at it but you also have to
stay on The Cutting Edge and the search
engines are so manipulated that it's
very difficult if you don't want to play
the game as to how you even stay ranked
for certain things right definitely yes
and that's becoming more and more opaque
and that will continue to become more
and more opaque right and invisible
until the people who are doing it won't
even know what they're doing yeah it's
wild because Google you would think with
their super refined algorithms would be
able to at least identify with some
semblance of accuracy what is the most
credible sources of information yeah
right but you will at least what I was
noticing even at the time and this is
still the case today uh blogs that had
for example domain ratings that were
seen as high Authority because they had
backlinks from certain places that were
also seen as high author Authority you
could instantly rank for terms that you
were not an expert in and you're
basically lying to your audience you
could say whatever you wanted as long as
you had a couple back wins from a a dogo
a Wikipedia a whatever these things
would prop you up so much yeah and then
people would buy these sites too totally
flip the content and get ranked
instantly for something they're selling
you that is unethical High ticket
whatever it's very hard for for people
to stay ahead of the really malevolent
psychopath yeah yeah yeah yeah that's
it's an arms race always now you said
that you had taken a business
administration degree and that you were
aiming at being an accountant okay this
is quite different from being an
accountant aiming because I didn't
really know it's not like I sought after
it because it was my dream job so why
did you do it it was just at the time
what felt to be the most appropriate
Avenue given I was quite unsure of what
my path forward would be I just knew
business business was likely the degree
that resonated with me the most okay so
you had some low resolution sense that
you at least wanted to operated in a
business environment but there's a big
difference between accounting and and
and managerial function like that and
the more entrepreneurial function that
you ended up adopting did you not know
when you started down your education
road that did you did you not were you
not able to distinguish between the
entrepreneurial route and the managerial
route and you I'm asking this partly
because you you made a point of of
pointing out that the education that you
received has almost no bearing on what
you're doing now and so is that actually
true was University good for you and and
how did you you said the injury put a
lot of free time on your hand so how did
you how did you persist through your
degree how did you realize that wasn't
for you
and where did the interest that did
eventually guide you Bubble Up from I
know it was associated with the injury
and your out so when I was going to
school there are multiple different
subdisciplines of the business
administration degree at the University
and you could do marketing you could do
um one of them is entrepreneurship but
at the time I had entrepreneurial
Tendencies but I certainly had no
conception of how to go about starting a
business if it was viable and feasible
like it just seemed like businesses and
entrepreneurial endeavors existed but
there was no real segue that I could
even conceptualize in my mind as to how
I go from A to B it was just like these
people must have been given the business
by their parents or they had some
inordinate amount of money that I would
never retain in order to start it or so
I just never really even thought about
it with any level of depth so to me on a
surface level I thought okay I'm going
to go work downtown for some big company
and be their accountant or maybe
specialize further and be forensic
accountant or right so it was partly
because there was a defined pathway yeah
yeah I work very well with
concrete uh goals so for me if there's
no clear path forward it becomes very
difficult to go step by step and
actually check the boxes and get that
you know reassurance and reinforcement
that what I'm doing is correct and this
is sort of why I resonated with the guy
who told me about publishing online and
all the different platforms and also my
current business partner or one of them
he was a popular influencer I guess at
the time which um back then
proportionally it's actually not that
long ago but he had I think 40,000
subscribers on YouTube and he was one of
the go-to main sources of information
for
self-improvement and um being able
to speak articulately with women that
you just met and all these things that
were highly like aspirational traits of
somebody who's a te teenager who is
relatively unsuccessful in all areas of
life and I'm still getting into this and
understanding what it takes to be like a
high performing or like high value man
as they put it nowadays so how did you
stumble onto the realization that that's
actually what you wanted I mean the your
the title of your blog and and your
YouTube channel points to that I mean
obviously more dates has something to do
with it but like do you have any idea
when you made the decision that it was a
pathway success that you wanted to walk
down and I mean you obviously went off
to college you went off to University to
to to pursue that route do do you
remember what where did you grow up uh
Vancouver British colia did most of your
friends go off to
University um I would say about
5050 okay okay were you an ambitious
teenager yes in what way um I think this
is pretty typical but a lot of people
have this underlying feeling that
they're destined for more than what they
are currently doing and there's just
something they're missing that is the
missing piece to solving that equation
to set them on the right path and I
always felt like that that piece was
missing in my life to really guide me
forward on what I actually should be
doing maybe that's not as common as I
think but I feel like a lot of no I
think that's the that's the that's the
voice that calls people out of the
safety of their father's tent into the
world right if you if you pay attention
to it that's the voice of Adventure
that's what people used to call a
calling right and it's a very strange
thing because a calling has an indep
it's like an independent spirit because
you have to act in cooperation with it
it's like an agreement it's like a
covenant that's how it used to be
described that's how it's described
biblically something calls to you and
you don't exactly get to pick what that
is like you can say no you can avoid it
you can take a different path but it
isn't obvious to me at all that what
interests us is within our control and
that's a very strange thing right
because it it it it indicates that
there's something like an autonomy
that's operating in what calls us you
can think the same way about conscience
you know things you do that you might
want to do will still bother you and you
might think well if your conscience is
you then why can't you just tell it what
to tell you and end of problem MH and
well part of the answer is it wouldn't
be much of a conscience if that was the
case but but even
more fundamentally that points to the
operation of something
that's independent within your
psychological landscape so one of the
things you see in traditional stories is
the interplay of two things that guide
people forward there's calling and so
that's that's the voice that you just
described so in the story of Abraham for
example the biblical story of Abraham
Abraham's about 75 when the story opens
and he's from a very wealthy and
privileged background and he has no
reason to do anything because everything
that he could have is already at his
hand and a voice comes to him and says
you have to leave all this you have to
go out into the world and have your
adventure you have to get beyond your
infantile security and dependence even
if it's providing for you you know
everything you might need out into the
world and he follows that voice and it
leads him into all sorts of catastrophe
like it's not a story without its ups
and downs after that it's not an uphill
Tre towards ever increasing paradises
right it's it's war and famine and
starvation or war and famine and
betrayal and the necessity of sacrifice
all the things that are terrible about
life so that voice that you said or that
sense that you had when you were a kid I
think that's in every kid that hasn't
had it thrashed out of them by through
one means or another tyrannical father
or over intrusive mother those are the
most common crushing elements let's say
and then the other thing that you've
pointed to which is the desire to be
attractive to women that's a major
motivator for men and it's partly
because the biggest predictor of male
success on the mating front is
socioeconomic success and the reason for
that seems to be that women are
attempting in some ways to level the
economic playing field right because
pregnancy child birth all of that child
care is very hard on them economically
and so they're looking for someone
to split the load let's say or share the
opportunity that's another that's a much
more positive way of thinking about it
so I think that voice is common although
I think we're doing everything in we can
in our culture to squelch it but it
wasn't squelched in you and then you
said you didn't exactly know how to
implement it right you went off to
business school and that wasn't EX
exactly right you had some sense that
the right pathway forward or the only
pathway forward that you could see that
was outlined was more conventional right
be University education and then job in
a college but then you got hurt and
that's interesting right because that's
kind of a catastrophe MH and yet in that
catastrophe was an opportunity yeah and
the catastrophe produced for you a lot
of excess free time that's a good deal
if you can figure out how to use it so
how did you figure out what to do with
that free time and why did you turn to
writing like had you been a writer yeah
so fortunately and this is partly why I
think having a blueprint of swords at
least for my I don't know the way I
Orient my goal setting and whatnot was
useful for me is my one of my current
business partners he was at the time one
of the Forefront influencers of the like
manosphere ever Niche yeah and I
followed his content pretty closely
while I was in university and he had an
online Forum where young guys would log
their self-improvement Journeys and
whatnot and keep themselves accountable
and over time he had kind of Taken note
of my knowledge or and rigor in
researching topics that I was very
interested in oh yeah including but not
limited to supplementation human biology
performance enhancements um
preventative medicine and through that I
was afforded a business opportunity to
actually work for him on the side as a
Blog writer SL customer service SL like
allaround uh basically assistant for his
current right so you had yeah that's a
big deal and I had been getting like
pseudo mentored I guess through his
content for years prior right okay so
let's talk about his content you you you
pointed to a few things you said it was
associate with the manosphere we can
talk about what that means as well and
that you were perusing the online forums
and also tracking people's
self-improvement Journeys and you found
something compelling in that yeah and
tracking my own as well okay so you know
I just talked to Joo willink I haven't
released that podcast yet and I've
talked to Joo a couple of times and you
know one of the things he discovered
which I thought was really fascinating
because Joo is quite the bloody monster
you know he knows perfectly well that
with a couple of bad decisions he could
have been quite the quite the terrifying
guy still a terrifying guy but for good
you know thank God for that and he said
that one of the things he discovered
when he went into the military was
that attracted as he was by the thought
of Mayhem and trouble he found himself
even more attracted by the fact that he
had the opportunity to Mentor other to
Mentor men who were younger than himself
and to guide them on a pathway of
improvement you know and then that that
same pathway that you said called to you
when you were teen teager and that was
really in part what civilized him right
because it he found something so
compelling in that that that was more
interesting than anything else he could
manage you know and one of the things I
really loved about being a clinical
psychologist and I still am a clinical
psychologist for now and also being a
professor was that opportunity to to
guide my undergraduate students my
clients my graduate students there's
something I think what that is it's a
it's a generalized manifestation of the
Instinct for fatherhood right it's
something like that and that's a very
profound Instinct the race the species
wouldn't survive without that instinct
obviously the paternal instinct is just
it's more subtle in some ways and
somewhat less targeted than the maternal
Instinct but we wouldn't have children
with dependency periods of 18 years if
that wasn't a very powerful Instinct
okay so you can
imagine that Call to Adventure made it
manifest in your life when you were a
teenager
then you know you got a little older and
you could see that when you were in
places where other people were pursuing
that there was something about that that
was that gripped you okay now the
writing bit that's because writing is a
difficult Enterprise like do you do you
think you had a facility for it writing
per se or do you think you were just so
compelled by your interest in these
things that we've been laying out that
you were willing to learn to write to to
manage that I suppose a hybrid of both
in hindsight my writing was not as great
as I thought it was at the time but
similar to I think any content creator
if you look at your first piece of
content versus current the way you
present yourself is significantly
different well hopefully hopefully if
You' learned anything yeah so back then
though my business partner Chris who had
written multiple articles and published
videos his primary um way of funding his
entrepreneurial Endeavors at the time
was through his blog articles he was
writing and essentially recommending
products that he already
used using the internet without
expressvpn is like leaving your keys in
your car while you run into the gas
station for a snack on most occasions
you're probably fine but what if you
come back to see someone driving off
with your car every time you connect to
an unencrypted Network in cafes hotels
or airports any hacker on the same
network can gain access to your personal
data it doesn't take much technical
knowledge to hack somebody just some
cheap Hardware is needed hackers can
make up to $1,000 per person selling
personal info on the dark web I love how
expressvpn creates a secure encrypted
tunnel between my device and the
internet so that hackers can't steal my
sensitive data it take a hacker with the
supercomputer over a billion years to
get past expressvpn's encryption all you
need to do is fire up the app and click
one button to get protected plus it
works on all devices such as phones
laptops tablets and more so you can stay
secure on the go secure your online data
today by visiting expressvpn.com Jordan
that's
expressvpn.com Jordan and you can get an
extra 3 months free expressvpn.com
[Music]
Jordan okay so so you're writing you're
starting to write and you're starting
you're being mentored at the same time
and you're writing about topics that
interest you and you're weaving into
that The Economic Opportunity that's
associated with blogging how is it that
you tell me how it is that you actually
start writing like imagine that a lot of
the people are listening who are looking
for something like a stepbystep step
pathway it's difficult to discipline
yourself to write and so and the
educational pathway that you picked
wasn't necessarily writing intensive so
what psychological obstacles did you
have to overcome to get yourself to sit
down and write regularly you know I
remember when I started to write one of
the things that happened on a pretty
regular basis was when I sat down I
would think well I have other things to
do this isn't a very good day for this I
don't really have anything to say no
one's going to pay any attention to this
anyways what the hell are you doing um
that's about and then those things would
plague me for a fair bit but then I
found over time if I just sat through
that the amount of time those ideas
plagued me shrunk yeah even though the
intensity didn't and then eventually the
intensity shrunk and after a number of
years of practicing I could unless I was
tired I could just sit down and get to
it right took a long time to organize
myself to manage that so those are
typical impediments plus not knowing
anything is also an impediment so when
you first started to write tell tell me
how you learned to write
well the way you write in WordPress
blogs for SEO was not the same as
English uh in University for example it
was a lot different so a lot of the
writing was essentially keyword written
um just verbiage that I would say to a
friend in general about the same advice
I'm imparting but with keywords
intertwined and subcategorization of
them to be very
you were very conscious about the
relationship between your writing and
the probability that it would get
distributed online yeah the the primary
concerns for me at the time were similar
to you is it a good use of time are
people going to read it Etc fortunately
and this is where I think having good
mentors comes into play If it hadn't
been for Chris having essentially built
a successful path for somebody starting
from scratch on a word WordPress blog
I wouldn't have thought it would be a
good use of time either that would
actually lead anywhere significant but I
had seen the success he had with it how
many people he was able to reach
including myself and influence my life
so significantly that it really inspired
me to do it as well and figured hey I
have as valuable of information and
these certain disciplines of Fitness
diet nutrition performance enhancement
preventive medicine that it's useful and
worthwhile to pursue so I guess the main
obstacles were technological Savvy
starting a WordPress blog as easy as it
is it's sites aren't as visually
friendly and user friendly for somebody
to set up as they were as they are now
back then they were quite intensive
where you'd just to move something
around you might need an actual
developer to come in and code something
just to put a specific header on your
title page or something it was it was
brutal so visually very appealing uh
very primitive looking blogs but the
information was good so okay okay so
let's concentrate on that I mean one of
the things
that's permanently and intractably
annoying online are content Mills so you
could imagine that and this is the TR
this is the case whenever you're
producing anything creative there's a
there's a real there's a balance between
the quality of the production and the
necessity of communicating it right and
you can have a very high quality
production and get nowhere MH and you
can have no content whatsoever and get
somewhere like those would be the two
extremes and a just a Content maill you
know those sort of sites you go to where
they break up the essay into paragraphs
that are like three sentences long and
put 50 ads between each yes those
goddamn places just drive me mad they're
definitely run by like narcissistic
Psychopaths but now now and and they
pollute the informational enir
environment and that's going to get way
worse with AI right because but now
but you
took this is not a criticism by the way
and I'll explain why you took some steps
in that direction because you were very
conscious of how the words you were
using were likely to be picked up by the
algorithms that communicated what you
were um writing and then while you were
talking you redeemed yourself right away
by saying but the information was
valuable it's like okay so for everyone
watching and listening if you're
artistically oriented for example a lot
of artists stab themselves in the heart
at the beginning of their career by
adopting this pseudo moral framework of
well I'm not going to sell out it's like
well first of all buddy who's asking you
you know if you have an offer of a
million dollars in hand and you decide
that for artistic reasons you're going
to reject it and that's not just a form
of egotism like more power to you but
you don't get to brag about how you
didn't sell out before someone actually
asks you to and then the second thing is
that's a stupid attitude anyways because
it shows a certain contempt for your
audience is that if you can't
communicate about what you're doing in a
manner that people find attractive and
that's accessible you might as well be
you might as well be alone in the dark
for the rest of your life because no
one's going to know what you're doing
and so there is a balance I I watched
the Elvis movie recently which I really
really liked and I thought it toyed with
this problem extremely interesting
because you had Elvis who obviously had
Conta I mean he was quite the
charismatic genius and in Revolutionary
in his ability to meld the sounds of the
of black music in the US with you know
the emerging White Rock and Roll market
and then you have his promoter and his
promoter is you know a bit of a shady
character but the balance they struck
was unbelievably effective because Elvis
had a stellar career you know and you
could argue that his his promoter took
advantage of him and I think on at at
times likely did but you can't argue
with the overwhelming and revolutionary
success of the entire Endeavor and so
you've got this tight balance to
maintain you want to have integrity of
content but you can't
sacrifice the willingness and ability to
communicate that has to be integrated
and I would say for the artistic types
especially that are listening and for
those who might be otherwise styed by
their own Integrity you should take the
problem of how to optimize your content
production and to communicate it you
think about that as a creative problem
in and of itself now you you I haven't
looked into search engine optimization
and that sort of thing much personally
you don't want it yeah well my well that
doesn't mean that my staff hasn't okay
right and so we're very attuned to the
necessity of staying on The Cutting Edge
of the communication platforms you can't
have contempt for your audience and if
you're respect for your audience is also
align aligned with your desire to
broaden your your influence and also to
increase your financial opportunity then
that's a nice alignment of motivation
right and there's nothing wrong with
that if you get everything in its proper
place okay so you were writing now you
said you had valuable content and you
started to realize that you could
produce information that was as valuable
as that which was being offered by
people who are already successful okay
how did you develop that ability and and
why and how did you come to that
realization so I suppose one of my
greatest assets is when I become
interested in something I become
enthralled in it to where I want to
learn as much as I can to be top 0 one%
in knowledge and that specific
discipline so right in those exact
topics I was talking about I was just so
hyper interested in them that I was
currently researching them heavily but
had also been previously for over half a
decade perhaps seven eight years at that
point so for me it felt like I had some
sort of life experience that was worth
actually writing about right and had
been in the trenches and done certain
things that were of value rather than
just regurg and they were genuine yeah
right right right okay so that's very
cool all of that so we did a study with
this program called self-authoring a
part of it called future authoring it
helps it has people develop a vision for
their life so to do that you you think
five years down the road and and you
imagine like honestly if you were taking
care of yourself what could your life be
like if it was the way you would like it
to be right that's a vague and complex
question and so we also break it down
for people what would your intimate
relationship look like friendships um
business educational opportunities how
would you take care of yourself mentally
and physically how would you use your
free time so-called free time most
productively um how might you serve
other people right so more
differentiated okay so now we had
students do this program for 90 minutes
no coaching nothing no one ever looked
at what they wrote before they went off
to University and also when they were in
University if they completed that rather
than a writing exercise of equivalent
length they were 50% less likely to drop
out in the first year 50 bloody percent
right now the biggest effect this is
where it's really cool the biggest
effect was on in young men it was and
the biggest effect was in young men who
had a not so Stellar academic career
right right so and you might might
imagine that part of the reason they
were underperforming I mean there's
intellectual reasons for
underperformance and there's reasons of
discipline but one of the reasons was
they didn't they weren't they had no
compelling reason to do
anything right now I think it's a truism
for men that they won't do a bloody
thing until until they find something
that calls now women like they're held
along their developmental path by
biological necessity in a way that men
aren't it's like you better have your
act together by 30 when you're a woman
because otherwise you're in trouble
you're a man you can monkey around till
you're Abraham's age like 75 and you're
still not scraped off the planet you
know so but but you know you said you
you hit a gold mine in some ways and and
then what else you said that was cool
was that see it was also dependent to
some degree on your genuine knowledge
not just some abstract knowledge as you
already disciplined yourself in a
variety of manners that you could
describe if I've got this right that was
helpful so let's let's delve into that a
little bit so okay so now you've got you
got business partners you've got a plan
to move forward that's on the writing
front and then you start making YouTube
videos you got some mentors so these are
good ways to start a business right find
someone who knows how to do it and you
know see if you can latch yourself onto
them in some manner that's mutually
productive and learn okay and then you
could
dive into your own experience okay so
what did you know how old were you when
you started the blog um
203 okay so pretty young so what did you
know at that time that you felt was
worth sharing that other people
obviously appreciate it and and how did
you manage to build up that body of
knowledge um in general it was my
transformation from being what I deemed
to be essentially you wouldn't even
received that I exercise when I was uh
probably 16 15 years old I was a rail
like 138 lbs um had no muscle to speak
of one of the thinnest kids on my
basketball team how tall were you uh 61
oh yeah that's about exactly the size I
was when I started weightlifting size
and weight yeah yeah so pretty sad how
much could you bench press when you
started not even the bar oh that's worse
than me that's really sad man I could
manage 75 pounds but it was a struggle
yeah so for me I had gone from you know
benching less than a girl to being able
to do reasonable Feats in the gym and be
what would be considered to be a good
physique to 99% of people essentially
even in the fitness industry and when
did you start that um probably around 17
years okay and how did okay how did that
come about um primarily through my
friends who were all in the gym and
making progress and I was the only one
who was only playing basketball and not
in the gym right so and you were also on
a basketball team so you had that in on
the athletic side yeah yeah see I didn't
play sports much when I was a kid partly
because I skipped a grade so I was
younger than my peers not put me at a
disadvantage so one of the things you
see for example is NHL stars are way
likely to be the oldest kids in their
class like being older that's a it's a
huge advantage on the athletic front to
be even a year older and a huge
disadvantage to be a year younger
anyways I didn't have the impetus of
team sports participation till I went
off to graduate school and that's cuz I
started playing team sports then and
that's also when I started to work out
okay so you you you had again that's
good good indication of the importance
of your peer Network and your mentoring
group you had people around you who were
doing this and you could see success on
their side so you went off to the gym
what was it like to go to the gym when
you first started to go um like the
first couple of weeks you're essentially
a [__] because you're so s but this
is like it's when you have a virgin
muscle as you work it out and it feels
like you've been destroyed but after a
while you start to adapt and you start
to see the scale climbing especially as
a good positive reinforcement that you
visually see even if in the mirror I'm
not perceiving insane amounts of
progress I can see metrics of change on
a numbers basis too that are
representing progress and clearly the
strength numbers are changing CU right
right on a long-term basis yeah so
that's an advantage of weightlifting cu
gives you those objective metrics very
quickly cuz if you just go by the mirror
it's very easy to get discouraged
because it takes years to go from what
appears to be untrained to somebody who
oh that guy's jacked yeah so for me A
lot of it was like positive peer
pressure I suppose in that my friends
were all doing it and I felt kind of
like left out if I didn't so i s weak
and useless and isolated yeah plus
unattractive yeah that's a bad
combination just by association I
started to go and saw pretty fast
results and to me that was enough to get
you know bit by the iron bug is what
they call it where you're so uh you
become addicted to the results and maybe
addicted is too strong of a phrase but
like you really enjoy the process a
habit anyways yeah it's integrated into
your life yeah so I had a really
positive experience and for me it just
uh consumed such a large part of my life
learning about it
and educating myself to the extreme
degree even on the performance
enhancement side that it felt worthwhile
to start writing about what I had
learned to date and perhaps at the time
like I think my knowledge now compared
to then it was a semblance then of it is
that it is now but back then it felt
still valuable enough and worthwhile and
I guess proportionally to the
concentration of content online at that
time was still like top whatever percent
well the thing is too you know no matter
where you are in your stage of
development in relationship to a goal
there are people who are behind you you
know and so even if you don't know
everything and you're still somewhat
even simple-minded in your approach that
might be exactly what the people who are
in even worse shape than you need to
hear like I always knew it was often the
case when I was lecturing as a professor
that it was the the easiest time for me
to lecture was when I was just learning
the material cuz by the time you get to
be an expert at something you forget
what people don't know right and then
that's exactly right yeah yeah so the
reason I'm highlighting that is because
you know people who are listening might
think well I don't know anything I mean
in regard to themselves maybe in regard
to me too but um that doesn't mean that
the place you're currently standing
isn't worth describing and sharing
because it could be extremely useful for
people for whom you're in their zone of
proximal development so one of the
things kids do that's very interesting a
when kids mature
they'll often pick a friend that's
slightly older than them someone they
look up to but they tend to pick a
person like that who is doing things
they could conceivably do you know so
like a three-year-old isn't going to
Hero worship at like a 14-year-old
because the Gap is too great but he
might develop a tremendous admiration
for the four-year-old down the street
you know who's got a little bit more
physical skill it's in his zone of
proximal development and that as a
teacher that's the zone you should
inhabit and that's a very wide Zone
depending on the people that you're
interacting with so so it's reasonable
to have some confidence in your own
knowledge if you've actually come by it
you know honestly let's say that's
likely a big component of what motivated
me to pursue the whole thing to begin
with too is because Chris similar to I
was kind of a at the time a bodybuilder
Meathead kind of guy who I deemed to be
not outside the realm of my sphere of
interest and had what was was a higher
level of education at the time and
success but it was within like the
proximal range of achievement for what I
could conceive I could get to and what
he had accomplished was very impressive
and um something I wanted to achieve
myself once your business gets to a
certain size cracks start to emerge and
things you used to do in a day are now
taking over a week if this is you then
you need to check out net Suite 37,000
business businesses have upgraded to
netw Suite by Oracle netsuite is the
number one Cloud Financial system
streamlining accounting financial
management inventory HR and more netw
Suite turns 25 this year that's 25 years
of helping businesses do more with less
they can help you close your books in
days not weeks and drive down costs
because your business is oneof aind you
get a customized solution for all of
your key performance indicators in one
efficient system with one source of
Truth net Suite will help you manage
risks get reliable forecasts and improve
margins I cannot stress enough that you
will have everything you need to grow
all in one place with netsuite right now
download netsuite's popular kpi
checklist designed to give you
consistently excellent performance for
absolutely free at netsuite.com
sjbp that's netsuite.com jbp to get your
own key performance indicator checklist
again that's netsuite.com JB
BP right right so that's interesting in
in relationship to choice of Mentor
right cuz you might want to think you
want to work for the highest achieving
guy in the world but maybe you don't
maybe you want to right exactly your
atmosphere and you're working for some
celebrity you're never going to take you
know takeaways that are significantly
relevant to your current state in time
so and perhaps that was a big component
as well is I didn't really log like
vlogging necessarily on YouTube but
people can absolutely see my development
in real time as I publish content so
perhaps following my education along as
I educated myself similar to what you
mentioned was a big factor that so what
did you have okay so I'm thinking of
this acting academy it's a a school that
that uh helps people develop their own
self motivation let's say and one of the
uh exercises that the acting academy has
its very young people do like 12 12
years old is um identify a domain of
business that they might be interested
in pursuing and then writing a letter to
someone in that
business attempting to describe to that
person why entering a mentoring
relationship with them would be useful
right would be interesting and useful
and so you could imagine that helps the
kids learn to write a letter like that
and to think that through but also one
of the things you want to do if you're
looking for a mentor and figuring out
how to develop yourself is to find
someone who can teach you but you can't
just go begging for that yeah there has
to be a quidd pro quo so with the people
that served as your mentors what do you
think it was that you had to offer to
make the relationship work fortunately I
had enough existing content via their
own platforms by posting my own
self-improvement Journeys even before I
was blogging so prior to that you've
done your homework yeah so I had already
kind of shown evidence of some level of
Acumen and success in the niches that
I'm speaking of and that's kind of what
led Chris to even contact me to say at
one point he had contacted me hey do you
want to do a guest post on my website
and you write top 10 you know like conly
Overlook something of bodybuilding yeah
so you had some proof of previous
performance well I just talked to a
young guy who sent me three months ago
two months ago he sent me
a bunch of online a number of online AI
projects that he had built out of my
material he didn't ask me if he could do
that and he wanted some of my time but
what he came armed with was these
projects and so I thought well I might
as well take a look at them and when I
looked at them I thought oh okay might
be worth you know half an hour talking
to this kid so he had already positioned
himself so he was a credible
Communicator right someone I might be
interested in having a chat with and so
you know it's very useful to understand
how it is you can position yourself so
that yeah because if you're asking if
you want something from someone you
should put yourself in a position where
the easiest thing for them to say is yes
yeah right yeah and I often see it's
interesting because I hear entrepreneurs
speak of this often how if you want to
stand out you know be willing to work
for free or show some value that you're
trying to make an offering yeah give
something of value to the person that
don't just try and take or ask for time
or anything like that and while that is
common advice I actually see a
shockingly few amount of people actually
go out and implement it and even when
they do the way they go about it is
often wrong in my opinion like they are
producing something that is what they
think is valuable rather than finding
insights from that person's content or
something that they can extrapolate out
as that person deems it as value so how
can I go about accomplish making a
bridge yeah so sometimes I get reached
out to a hundred times a month hey can I
make thumbnails for you here's examples
of thumbnails that I've supposedly
created like how about you just send me
one that might have looked good of you
took raw footage yourself and made a
great thumbnail and sent it to me in an
email maybe it would have taken you how
many minutes but you would have stood
out from 99% of other people in that
moment or the AI thing I've had some
people reach out about AI stuff too
where hey what if you could consult
validate all of your um preventative
medicine Health optimization information
one AI robot here's an example often I
find as of now those are relatively
inaccurate but it's a good idea to show
value that could be something the person
you're seeking would actually deem to be
worth interacting with you well so so
another thing that I really noticed with
the undergraduates at University so um
there are a lot of students and not many
professors like like I think in the
psych department at the UFT there was
like 300 students for one Professor so
developing a relationship with a
professor was a tricky business and it's
really necessary to develop such a
relationship at some point in your life
because you can't get mentored properly
and then you don't have that pathway
that you described you know that's a big
problem so a lot of what a university
education is if you're fortunate is a
sequence of mentoring and apprenticeship
experiences but I'd have you know
students show up to my office and say
you know can I work in lab and uh you
have to be careful who you work with
because you don't have to bring very
many people in who aren't oriented
properly for the whole bloody thing to
turn into a nightmare like one in 30 is
probably enough One Bad Apple in 30 is
enough to sink the ship that's a
terrible mixed metaphor but but it's
true I ran a I I helped with a sequence
of courses that were designed to produce
entrepreneurs all around the world I
think the company that did this it was
the founded the funer Institute founded
in in California and uh they found that
if they had one person in a class of 50
who was tilted in the dark tetrad
Direction narcissistic Psychopathic
mellan that that was enough to syn the
whole course like what so you got to be
care so anyways these students would
come and say you know do do you have any
opportunities and usually I have a lot
of projects bouncing around in the air a
lot of them only potential and not
manifest in anyways and so I'd often say
well you know here's a problem I'm
trying to solve yeah why don't you go do
some research on that and come back and
answer this question for me then the
students would bifurcate there'd be two
responses to that one would be one group
of kids would come back like a week
later say they had a week deadline
they'd come back on time they'd come
back and overd deliver but not insanely
but you know they went a little bit
beyond the Call of Duty and they
provided something that was actually
useful and I'd think
oh that means I could give you something
and you could do it and it would be less
trouble for me than doing it myself
which is sort of why you hire someone
but then there was another category of
people who would come back and say well
you know I I couldn't get this finished
and then they'd have five reasons why
not and often they were plausible
reasons you know but when I delved into
the life circumstances of the people who
did come back with it finished they'd
had just as many problems they just
didn't let their problems stop them now
if there was a death in the family or
something you know cataclysmic well fair
enough
maybe maybe because you don't get that
many opportunities you know so you
should capitalize on them but so this
goes along with the statistics show too
that if you're if you work 10% longer
hours you make 40% more money and you
can imagine that just in a workplace
like imagine you're running a restaurant
and you're going to hire you hire some
dishwashers and you want to figure out
which ones to keep cuz most of them
aren't going to do the job and most of
them will quit and one of them comes 15
minutes early and leaves 15 minute late
15 minutes late and you might think I'm
not given that Bloody capitalist one
extra scent of my one extra minute of my
time it's like yeah well don't think he
won't notice you know a little bit above
and beyond pays incredible it segregates
you from your comp comptition right and
at work if you are willing to go that
extra mile and you're smart enough also
to non- manipulatively make that known
you know because people have to see what
you're doing too that's the marketing
element then when your boss is sitting
around and someone in a managerial
position higher than yours has left
suddenly and he's flailing about trying
to figure out who he can slot into that
position tomorrow because he doesn't
have any time your name might be the one
that drifts up into his imagination yeah
right I think a lot of people would be
shocked how like non-credentialed
certain people in high up positions
actually are simply by the opportunities
afforded to them through hard work and
going above the Call of Duty of the
average person sometimes it'll be like
how did you become the you know producer
for X person it's like oh I was just
they asked me to do something or I went
out of my way to do it and it was
extremely high quality yeah and and they
gave me something else yeah yeah you bet
well we know on the objective predictors
of success front the best predictor for
success in a complex Enterprise is
intelligence and you know there's not a
lot you can do to crank up your raw
intelligence although there are things
you can do to stop making yourself
stupider so well that's something you
know
right conscientiousness is diligence and
dutifulness orderliness industriousness
it's the second best predictor yeah and
you can discipline yourself to become
more conscientious and people do across
time as people get older they get more
conscientious and so you know it's it's
lovely to be to have as a gift from God
an IQ of 145 but if you're willing to
work you know like actually work and not
just look like you're
working especially if you deliver when
when if you strike when the iron is hot
that can move you an awful long ways we
have of people in my organization
who Who Rose through the ranks in
exactly that manner cuz they're at hand
you ask them to do something extra and
maybe just as a test you know this guy
seems pretty good at what he's doing can
we give him something else yeah yes oh
well maybe he has potential that isn't
exhausted by his current role yeah right
and so that's fun to find out about
yourself too okay so you're writing away
and what do you start writing about and
how often like tell me about your
writing routine to begin with and how
you developed it in general I would when
I'm most mentally sharp and and when was
that for you when I wake up I try and
saave off eating as long as I can to
stay as mentally dialed and I usually
have about a seven to eight hour window
where I can crank out whatever content
creation on that day okay and you found
that was when you first woke up yeah
found the same thing even though I
didn't like mornings I was sharpest to
write in the mornings yeah so I would
typically sit down and just put on
headphones and try and stay as un uh
interrupted as possible go on airplane
mode and crank away and noise cancelling
headphones like to for to be silent yeah
okay so you weren't you listening to
music or anything else um sometimes I
listen to soft music that's not totally
distracting it just depends on my mood
for that day but you know I I wouldn't
have anything on the background like a
show or hardcore music or anything well
when I was especially when I was writing
seriously it's like yeah no I love
listening to music it's like no there's
you can't if you're serious about what
you're doing you can't allow for
distraction now you said as well that
you found that that didn't bother you as
long as you were writing about something
you're interested in because you were
willing to get obsessive about it I
actually think that's a very fundamental
male trait by the way that
unidimensional obsessiveness driven by
interest partly because that is the
pathway to success that that that that's
the golden Pathway to success for sure
that is the thing that's so I think that
calling yeah that spontaneous interest
is actually that manifestation of the
Instinct that leads to success it's
deeply rooted in you biologically way
the hell down below your cognitive
systems way way down so if you tap into
that man it's a it's a powerful motive
Force no absolutely yeah so for me at
the time I was obsessed primarily with
body composition and looking good and
per performing well and that led me into
the performance enhancement side of
things but then further down the road to
that I learned about the detriment and
dangers of it and that led me down the
pr preventative medicine pathway where I
became far more passionate about um
longevity Vitality um and it led me
to my primary business Endeavors at this
point which is um mer Health my
preventative medicine platform and
through the knowledge on pharmacology
and
supplementation I started a supplement
company with my co-founder Chris and um
continued to make content thereafter
that was more aligned with my current
interest which has transitioned over
time less because obviously as you get
older and more mature it's not like even
the name I've considered changing it
because it's not like 23y old more
plates more dates D is the same as me
now years later where I'm far more uh
interested in and um science-based
longevity tactics blood work analyzation
um preventative medicine as a whole and
my content is less oriented to you know
picking up well yeah okay so but okay so
let's think about that too here because
you know one of the things you said was
that when you went to University you had
a vague sense that business was your
thing right it's a very low resolution
representation but that doesn't mean it
was wrong it just meant that it wasn't
finally honed right it's still in the
right direction okay so when you're 23
and you're you're writing about uh more
plates more dates I mean you have you
have a compelling interest right at hand
which is you're developing interest in
women and and being attractive to women
and so that would go along with looking
good and then that would that would you
can see how that would segue into a
deeper interest in something like
performance right because it's like well
what does it mean to look good well that
can be flashy and surface but people
figure that out pretty damn quick if
they have any sense right and so there
has to be something deeper under that
and that could be something like well
health and performance because it really
is the case that the truest form of
looking good that's sexually attractive
is actually associated with optimized
health so for example the markers that
we find attractive in the opposite sex
say and and vice versa are markers of
biological health so waste to hip ratio
in women 0 68 is optimized for fertility
right and so symmetry is a which is a
very important determinant of physical
attractiveness symmetry is an indication
of um untrammeled neuro neurological and
physiological development so if you're
symmetrical it indicates
that you haven't encountered pathogens
or impediments in your developmental
pathway that twisted and hurt you in
some way that would be more than merely
Skin Deep right now I'm not saying that
everybody who isn't symmetrical you know
has their under underlying problems I'm
saying that if you're looking for a
quick and dirty marker of something like
biological Integrity symmetry is a great
one butterflies this is so cool you know
how beautiful butterflies are they've
worked on that a long time a long time
they can detect a uh deviation from
symmetry in a potential mating partner
of one part in a million wow right and
they're butterflies like how they do
that is just like it's just a miracle
that they can do that I I have no idea
how that's even possible but the results
are at hand right because a lot of the
beauty in butterflies is a consequence
of sexual selection I saw this really
cool butterfly at one point just a
picture of it when it closed its wings
it was a leaf and completely identical
to a leaf and when it opened it it was
beautiful like a butterfly is and so the
natural selection had tuned it to look
like a leaf and the sexual selection had
tuned it to be spectacularly beautiful
and natural selection or sexual
selection which is the selection of
mates by at least somewhat conscious
agents it's a major force that governs
Evolution and our sense of beauty is a
consequence of sexual selection so now
you can imagine that as a Young Man the
way that instinct to self-development
the self-development that best produces
survival and reproductive Fitness over
the long run makes itself manifest as
the D desire to be attractive to women
right and then the women become the
judge of performance and then you could
imagine that if you pursued that
diligently like you did that that would
start to deepen yeah right so now you're
you started to become concerned with
performance rather than looking good per
se and then that broadened out into a
much deeper understanding of physical
health primarily or would you say how
much physical health and how much mental
health um I suppose at the time I didn't
really have a huge focus on Mental
Health it was more cognitive function as
a whole so how sharp witty um
charismatic these were all things that
stemmed from having multiple
conversations with attractive and
otherwise intimidating women that then
bled into business interviews and
presentations and things that I noticed
oh wow my
conversational uh capacity was like
significantly elevated just by exposing
myself to these like otherwise fear
inducing encounters with attractive
women now no no unpack that sure okay
okay so first thing I would say to that
is the best way to sustain and develop
your cognitive function is through
physical exercise the cardiovascular and
weightlifting it's way better than doing
cognitive exercises now but you pointed
to something else more specific which
was that part of the impetus you had to
to Foster your ability to communicate
came as a consequence of conversations
that you had with challenging women okay
so tell me exactly tell me how that
developed if you were like most
Americans you're struggling to make ends
meet everything is more expensive these
days by the time you pay your bills fill
up your car and go grocery shopping
there's almost nothing left you're using
your credit card more than you'd like
and last I check the average credit card
interest rate for Americans was
24% that's insane how are you supposed
to dig yourself out from all of that
debt if you own a home I want you to
call my friends at American financing
right now interest rates have finally
dropped into the fives which is the
lowest they've been in a long time so
call American financing to talk about
their refinance options they save their
customers an average of
$854 a month by tapping into their home
equity and wiping out highin credit and
debt think about it
$854 a month is like a $10,000 raise
what a relief that could be for you and
your family don't wait to take control
of your finances these rates might not
last long so act today call American
financing at
0303 and if you call today you may not
have to make next month's mortgage
payment that's
88884335108
for well-qualified borrowers call 888
84303 for details about credit costs and
terms it wasn't necessarily that I
sought out as a goal to if I talked to
attractive women it will then lead to
business success but it just it was an
indirect byproduct that I noticed was
was a uh Fringe benefit and for me at
least at the time the most challenging
and anxiety inducing activity was
walking up to a woman who is very
attractive that you didn't know and
being able to introduce yourself and
have a fluent and uh articulate
conversation right so after that had
been accomplished and I could repat so
okay so how did you okay so there's a
shift there a because maybe because to
begin with if I understand it correctly
your primary focus was on something like
physical appearance right and you had
your reasons for that I mean you know
you were tall and thin and you needed to
you needed to fix that up but then this
other idea comes in you start to notice
that the manner in which you're being
evaluated by women has something to do
with the surface features that surface
features that we've been talking about
Symmetry and and muscle mass and
physical confidence all those things you
can build up with weightlifting but then
there there was a cognitive component
like I don't think there is much more
that's much more attractive to women
than the Capac to be articulate I mean
poets do just fine musicians do just
fine right and it's no it's no in no
small part a reflection of their of the
Charisma of their capacity to be
articulate yeah right and this is this
is something that's terribly badly
taught to young men if at all right well
it's never taught to them like it's so
appalling because if you took a group of
13-year-old guys and you sat them down
and said you know you're you're kind of
useless and hideous and one of the
things that you could do
to more attractive to women is to become
a hell of a lot smarter than you are and
to learn how to show that and to explain
why that is their motivation for
attending let's say to English
literature this is something willink
again learned I mean he when he was a
commander in the uh in the naval seals
one of the things he learned was for
example that he couldn't speak for his
men properly unless he could make an
articulate account of their Battlefield
performance right and that his
performance as a Le was dependent on his
ability to be articulate then you see
people like Russell Brand for example
who are so articulate that it's just
beyond comprehension and you can see
exactly the Charisma that rappers are
exactly the same manifestation of
exactly the same sort of thing so I also
think it's pretty damn funny this week
that Ben Shapiro is now the world's
number one rapper oh yeah I haven't
watched that music oh my God it's so
funny especially because Shapiro I mean
he's a rapid fire speaker so it's not
that surprising but he's been like
criticizing rap as not being music
hip-hop for years so like this is so
comical but it's a good we we can look
at the underlying reason why that poetic
gift is so attractive it does indicate
Your Capacity to be articulate and that
is a great indicator of your general
competence okay so you were learning
that I noticed too speaking with you
today you don't have any of the
common errors that people often make
when they're speaking no ums no Oz no
you likes you know none of that like you
know none of that filler and that you
take your time to pause when you need to
pause and all of those bad habits of
communication seem to have been
completely taken out of you now you've
been doing YouTube videos for a long
time so now you started to pay attention
to more verbal articulation did that
develop along with your interest in
writing yeah I think the writing was
just a byproduct of the only medium I
knew of to communicate my knowledge at
the time it was not necessarily that I
had a huge passion for it and I sought
out to write elaborate and in-depth
content because I loved writing more
this is the medium by which You Reach
people and uh give value and then via
that I realized oh you know you can
build a far more intimate relationship
with the viewer um they can associate
with your journey as you develop Etc
over video and in infinitely more time
efficient as well oftentimes I would try
and publish a coinciding article at the
same time as the video and the proof
reading process even taking a transcript
that was already written for me of what
I said in a video and making it
perfected for all the grammatical
Corrections that would be necessary for
it to be actually publishable online it
was the time equivalent of filming five
more
videos eventually and this is I think my
last article was years ago at this point
stopped writing and went full to video
so what did the writing do to you or for
you to facilitate that transition
because one of the important qualities
of writing is the formalization of your
thought the formalization of the manner
in which you express yourself right the
the ability
to reflect on what you're thinking
because writing allows you to do that
because it's externalized you
so I've turned to video to a large
degree as well although I still write
and the reason I write is because I
don't think there's any deeper form of
thinking than writing and so what did
the writing do for you that enable you
to make the
transition into
YouTube I think just putting on paper so
to speak even though it's online the
thoughts I had that were recognized ized
as valuable by people listening
subscribing to my mailing list yeah that
to me gave me the reinforcement that
pursuing content Creation in general was
worthwhile right and you could identify
what your Market was interested in too
right so you have a dialogue going with
them yeah often times when people make
videos they're very
scatterbrained not guided in what
they're even trying to say and at least
with writing it's a very very meticulous
process by which you ensure your work is
perfected before it goes out whereas
video while you can edit it and chop it
up at the end of the day if you're not
an articulate speaker it's not going to
come across the same way as articulate
and focused yeah you know so one of the
things I do before I go on stage is I
have the questions I'm trying to address
in mind that's the aim it's like so the
the pro there's a problem the problem is
Manifest in the question here's
something I would like to know about
that I don't know about and then I can
aggregate stories around that to try to
investigate that problem and I can share
that with the viewer now and that gets
me a fair ways because now I'm thinking
through this problem and it it's really
fun if this happens properly because if
the lecture goes spectacularly well I
can weave together all these disperate
stories and it'll come to a point that
actually addresses the problem and I can
use that as a punchline and if it's good
I can do that near the end of the
lecture right it lands pull all these
things together it's like telling a very
complex joke that actually has a
punchline but it is akin to writing so
people out there who are listening if
you want to write or you want to speak
you need a problem in mind and
your your product that essay or that
lecture needs to circle around that that
issue at hand and it should be an issue
that your audience would also find
compelling now you did Market testing so
to speak with your writing because you
could tell what was landing and you were
actually see the other thing that people
often don't understand is when they're
producing a product they have to find
out if there's a market for it so it's a
dialogue between you and your customer
base right and it's very rare for
someone to produce a product and then
launch it into the world so that it will
be successful without having gone
through that dialogical process so a lot
of the serial entrepreneurs I know
who've made many companies sequentially
when they have a new idea they start
they'll launch versions of it quite
quickly to see how people are responding
and sometimes they find that the problem
they're solving no one cares about and
they'll they'll pivot to some other
direction but the thing about your
audience is they'll tell you what they
want if you pay attention to them yeah
right and then you can figure out you
can feel your way forward what do you
think you did well so let's talk about
your YouTube success now so tell me how
that started and tell me what you think
you did right and tell us about how it
grew so in general I think that
transitioning from writing to video in
general was the first Catalyst to having
hyper accelerated growth and exposure
simply through efficiency of output and
then further to that I started to
realize that frequency was essentially
my bottleneck by which I could if I
could get out more content I could get
more velocity of uh influence I suppose
um being gained over time and for me um
I went to one video a day actually at my
height I was doing two videos a day
which how long how long were the videos
20 minutes in general right right why'
you pick 20 minutes I didn't I just
whatever it landed at that was the
average I see I but they're relatively
like not short form not three minutes
but not an hour and a half no podcast it
was mostly me addressing a specific
topic and flashing it out to whatever
amount of detail I felt were while and
sometimes that would be an hour
sometimes it' be 15 minutes I would say
on average it was 20 25es right but you
had a central Topic in mind yeah exactly
so what sort of topics did you start
dealing with when when you began and and
how has that developed across time when
it started it was more your standard
Fitness questions how to lose fat how to
get shredded how to gain muscle optimal
diet for um keeping fat off just any
sort of topics that I wish I knew when I
was 1 years old and had a quick answer
to in a very easy to digest format from
a content creator I had high trust
factor in and seemed educated about it
and had some sort of experience in the
trenches that I can how did you ident
okay so so did you try to put yourself
in the was that was that your target
audience was it like to begin with was
it like guys who are about 17 did you
try to put yourself in their head like
how did how do you think it was that you
set yourself up so the right questions
to ask appeared for for you I think
fortunately for me often when I make
content it is based on a question I had
relatively recently where I can appeal
to a demographic that was me five plus
years agoan CH so you're noticing what
you're wondering about yeah so by
extension and I think this is the best
way to Garner an audience that is
actually um aligned with what your
interests are is what were you
interested in yourself and what are you
an expert genuin that because that way
you're you're gathering around you the
people who are your audience yeah and
not someone else's which is another
reason you shouldn't game it yeah it's
like because if you do that right this
is one of the things I love about this
podcast is like I can just find people
I'd like to talk to that's a good deal
yeah you know and they'll come and talk
to me and then I can share that with
everyone and there's because none of
that is false I'm never anything other
than enthusiastic about what I'm doing
because why would I not want to sit down
and talk to so I mean I've talked to my
intellectual Heroes on the podcast it's
you know and people who are great like
yourself who are great at marketing and
communicating and I can learn more all
the time by doing that and so that's it
that's so this speaks to this necessity
this something for everybody to think
about too is you want to have your
bloody motivations aligned your
interests aligned this is the same when
you're working with people find out what
you're interested in right and pursue
that make sure your head's screwed on
straight about that because your
interests were aligned with trying to
make things better you know you came
about that in the typical sort of young
man way which is how can I get women to
like me which is a perfectly good
question you know because they're very
very harsh judges yeah yes and they're
likely to reject and so that's a good
disciplinary strategy and getting
through that builds a lot of mental
fortitude as well yeah more than
anything else absolutely more than
anything else yeah there's a reason man
you know you remember the movie Sleeping
Beauty m mhm remember when the hero
escapes from the castle Yeah okay so
it's a feminine image he confronts
that's the evil queen right she turns
into the dragon that burns everything
down before he gets to the princess
right right well there's a reason that
story Echoes it's because if you want to
awaken the Sleeping Princess you better
let the dragon burn off everything
stupid about you right and if that'll be
most of you yeah right so that's very
painful mhm yeah you're essentially a
product on a market that will tell you
in real time if you are worth being with
or not and you will get the harsh
reality check you need yeah yeah
especially in online dating which is
essentially how most people meet
nowadays you will get told very quickly
if you are appealing or not right right
well pornography yeah you either deal
with the realities of the situation or
you swear off women become an incel
whatever it is but yeah that's not a
good that's not a good pathway no no
there's a lot of resentment and
bitterness and murderous rage under that
particular decision yeah right right
right okay so now you're making on
average 20 minute videos and you're
concentrating on the things that you
notice you were wondering about but also
that might appeal to the younger people
that you're trying to pull along let's
say or encourage that's a better way of
thinking about it and so how does that
broaden across time now you have merri
health and you have a supplement company
tell me how the work that you were doing
in in YouTube where that led you in
terms of the deepening of your interest
and how that made itself manifest in the
entrepreneurial and business world so
complimentary to self-improvement and
optimization you will
often typically you'll end up down
rabbit holes of what can I do to enhance
cognitive performance what can I do to
optimize my hormones what can I do to
offset neurod degeneration prevent aging
stay youthful vital strong build like
all these things are intertwined yeah
all those are infinitely deep rabbit
holes yeah so transitioning from just
cosmetically how do I be as appealing as
possible to also how do I perform well
feel great actually be healthy Etc it
all is uh it it felt like a natural
progression going from the more
superficial to the more uh actual
integrated Focus so for me I got a cool
story about that do tell all right so
it's one of the most famous stories in
the world it's Moses encounter with the
burning bush Okay so he's just wandering
around along his pathway he's just a
young guy he's a Shepherd at this point
he's got two wives he's doing all right
on that front he's got a good
relationship with his father-in-law
there's nothing special about him he's
left his home and he's being a shepherd
and in those days that was no joke
because you were out on your own taking
care of yourself guarding over these
things that were pretty fragile and
there were Lions so like you you're a
tough dude if you were a Shepherd low
status but you know a contender all
right so now he's near Mount Si which is
the place essentially where Heaven and
Earth meet that's the symbolic landscape
and he sees something out of the corner
of his eye it glimmers at him and gleams
and attracts him and so he goes off the
beaten path to investigate and it's this
Burning Bush and what a burning bush is
it's something that's alive because a
tree is a very good representation of
life itself in its branching complex
right why we have trees of of of say
phenetic derivation evolutionary
speaking and trees of relationship and a
tree is something that branches and and
it's obviously also something that's
alive this is a burning it's burning
life well you could think about that as
life at its most extreme because you are
on fire I mean we're metabolic agents
right I mean we burn to live and so life
is a form of a burning bush is a living
flame that's a good way of thinking
about it and this is what attracts you
is the essence of the living flame so
Moses goes to to look what is this and
then he's he gets closer and closer to
it right which is what you're doing by
the way when you go from you know the
superficial attraction Into the Depths
the rabbit holes let's say he gets
closer and closer to this source of this
energy right and so at one point he
notices he's starting to tread on sacred
ground that's how close he is he's way
down in the depths he takes off his
shoes that's an indication of humility
and he keeps pursuing and what happens
is the voice of God itself speaks to him
right the essence of being and
transforms him that's what turns him
into a leader that the leader that can
stand up against tyranny and slavery and
so the message of that's and that's
despite his inadequacies because Moses
objection right away says well I'm
inarticulate I can't speak well and God
basically says well that's your problem
you should do something about that by
whatever means necessary because this is
what you're called upon to do and so the
idea there it's such a cool idea which
is why this is such a great story is
that if you pay attention things will
call to you you know some of them are
generic like the male desire to be
attractive to women if you take that
seriously it does this right it leads
you down Into the Depths that's partly
where you'll encounter everything stupid
about you that has to be burned away but
it's also where you discover the purpose
that does make you part of the Eternal
process that stands up against tyranny
and slavery right so that's and there
isn't anything more entertaining than
doing that so okay so now you're
pursuing your interest and you're
getting better and better at
communicating and now you're broadening
your reach and deepening your
understanding and so how does that make
itself manifest actually in the realm of
like proximal success you have meric
health how does this unfold and why does
it work um so for me over time as I
developed my expertise in these very
specific Niche uh disciplines I felt
like I had there was a lack of certain
things in the marketplace that actually
represented high value services and or
products for the things I was seeking
whether it be pre-workout
supplementation for sports performance
or cognitive enhancement with New
Tropics that weren't pixie dusted with
things that were on paper attractive
looking ingredients but were actually at
minuscule dosages that impart no actual
benefit there was a lot of areas to be
improved in the industries as a whole um
and I could right so you could see as
you delved further and further in and
developed expertise you could see where
the holes were essentially yeah and it
was getting very frustrating to be able
to be talking about what people should
be looking for um even what I deem to be
high quality of certain products
Services whatever diagnostic metrics and
it not being readily available or in a
service that I felt was valuable enough
that
was uh something that
had people that actually cared behind it
and were continuing to educate
themselves on the Forefront of The
Cutting Edge right so it was something
real other words so for me being
somebody who's creating content about
this every single day and communicating
with elevating levels of um expertise in
these different fields and being
Associated by proximity to certain like
expert Minds in these industries um it
was just a no-brainer for me to pursue
what I felt hyper passionate about
bringing the highest level of service to
and also was frustrated with not having
the access myself being a Canadian for
example with blood work essentially
impossible to get anything if you're not
literally dying sometimes so I would and
then and even then oh even then it's
like yeah it's it's absolutely you're
imagining your erectile dysfunction or
or you know some you you know what's
they don't even the concept of trt was
something back in testosterone
replacement therapy that was
unfathomable for a primary care uh like
a family doctor or somebody to be even
discussing with you let alone let you
get a blood test for or anything if you
were under the age of I don't know so
what why did you become why did you
become confident in your developing
knowledge I mean you're not an MD you
don't have a bi background in biology M
um you know you came at it from from the
gym let's say and from and from business
administration you know and and and
so why is it that you had faith in your
progress and
and does it does does your lack of
formal qualification in that regard
disturb you like how do you know that
you're not pedling snake oil how do you
know that you're not a Charlotte and say
I mean it's not like the health field
isn't full of charlot so so so you know
you speak with enthusiasm and conviction
about what you're doing but how do you
protect yourself against the potential
for error so for me I have always valued
transparency so in general when it came
to supplements or Diagnostics Medical
oversight it was always based on
literature and I wasn't the first
certainly but I was one of the first to
actually make content literally
dissecting scientific papers on YouTube
to where I'm speaking about fact
to my audience about the most Cutting
Edge of information how long did it take
you to learn to read a scientific paper
that's that's actually very hard yeah
years and also just again being
enthralled in it at some point you go
above and beyond the scope of what have
your gim Bros told you what have you
read in online forums what have you and
as you go up the the Grapevine so to
speak of uh quality of information you
end up in actual scientific literature
published by credential people and by
extension and then you learn how to
evaluate it which also takes years yeah
and by extension I suppose a lot of my
content because I had such a specific
overlap with different areas of
discipline like hair loss prevention
performance enhancement hormone
optimization diagnostic analysis these
things are all different subcategories
that aren't one and the same and have
unique overlap so I guess fortunate for
me I had enough of a carved out uh
unique channel that it caught the
attention of certain people that um even
above the scope of the Jim brro and the
whatever I started to get associated
with the likes of you know Andrew
huberman Peter AA these are individuals
that I consider friends and um speak
with regularly now so that kind of thing
over time I suppose my impostor syndrome
kind of faded away a little bit because
I too didn't think I'm just some jimro
why should I have any right to be
talking about anything to do with blood
work or anything and I would often be
hesitant to make I don't necessarily
make medical recommendations ever but I
will point to guided encouragement to
seek out certain things that I deem to
be worthwhile for myself or my family or
what have you so it's never about trying
to play Doctor um it's more about here's
the literature here's how I've educated
myself here's the scope of influence
that has created and assimilated my
knowledge basis to where this is what I
right and you can trust yourself to some
age because you've defined your Pursuits
carefully I mean one of the threads that
weaves through everything we've talked
about is the fact that you are actually
interested in learning about how to be
healthier and better multi-dimensionally
and that's genuine and then you're also
interested in helping other people do
that and that's genuine and so that
actually sets the framework within which
you can evaluate say scientific
literature you know I mean if a
scientist is evaluating his own data set
and his goal is to advance his career
everything every single statistic that
he produces will be a lie yeah right
because he's bending his vision to serve
his
narcissism right and so you have to have
your vision clear to begin with if
you're going to if you're going to if
you're going to pursue the truth in a
manner that's positive right and you can
see I mean I can see by talking to you
that there's a real consistency in the
way that you address all these themes
and that consistency I mean we could
boil it down to to some degree you can
boil it down to self-interest right
which is okay I'm not complaining about
that that well you're no one's going to
quibble with your desire when you were a
young man to be attractive to women it's
like yeah obviously and then the story
of how that deepened that's perfectly
plausible and you do have skin in the
game because if you go find out stupid
things about how people can be healthy
then you're going to like sink your own
boat which seems like a stupid
proposition so where are you at tell
people about mer Health now and and
where you're at with that and then also
about the supplement company yeah yeah
by the way I would I don't know if this
is something you'd be willing to speak
to you but I'd love to hear your
experience working with mer Health
Michaela and you have used our services
for a while now yeah um what's your
experience well I'm still my my
experience has been fine and positive
I'm still learning exactly how to use
what you have to offer because it's
complicated right and and Michaela has
gone farther down those rabbit holes
that I have partly because of necessity
and and and and Desperation so I'm still
working it out and trying to figure out
where I could maximally benefit and I
think that'll probably take me a year or
so to really get my feet under you know
get my feet on the ground so I
understand what I'm doing but I'm very
interested in continuing to pursue it
which is obviously partly why I'm
talking to you today It's Tricky for me
too because I I'm
very careful now about any
supplementation because my diet is so
restricted yeah so so um I want more
information about mer Health lay it out
for people partly so I know more about
it because I'm participating in it but
also tell me what the value proposition
so to speak is for the people you know
who are watching and listening yeah so
over time I just found it incredibly
difficult to get medical oversight for
myself and my family that reflected the
most Cutting Edge literature and was
preventative often times you will
especially in Canada my experience and
many others is is you go to a doctor
even if you're trying to be and when I
say preventative I mean trying to avoid
the onset of disease rather than waiting
for you to be in a stay healthy rather
than be cured exactly and I understand
there's like you know political stuff
associated with that and um the costs
you know it being free and all these
things might reflect a little free
except for the dying part so in general
even the access via your own autonomy to
be able to pay for it was limited in
Canada to a point that it was so
frustrating that I was finding myself
driving over the border to go buy myself
lab work from us-based companies and
then even of those us because there
doctors in Canada would literally tell
me no even when I asked to pay for blood
work with cash which was why wow wow man
so I would make there's the cost of free
the cost of free is that no matter how
much money you have you can't buy the
thing yeah even your physical presence
is such a burden on the system
apparently yeah well that's what I think
the hospitals would work a hell of a lot
better if there were a lot fewer
patients in them right and that's where
all the incentives are aligned toward
yeah right yeah good so for me I would
pay out of pocket to a diagnostic
company in the states drive over the
Border pretend that was you know I had
like a US billing address to be able to
utilize their service and I would get
Diagnostics and then interpret them
myself because as a Canadian no doctor
would at least of the ones I could find
would look at it take it seriously and
care because they would tell me oh
you're 24 years old why do you why you
even looking at this stuff this is a
waste of time get out of my office and
then even of the things I wanted to look
at often times it
was things that they will not take
seriously until it is a problem so for
me right that isn't the approach I want
to take I don't want to be having my
parents in you know uh assisted living
homes and whatnot when they're older and
me being there uh at at an age that is
just unjustifiable when they could
otherwise avoid the onset of disease
also for myself performing at a high
level it's all very important to me so
finding out this information was of
critical importance for not just Health
purposes but also performance and the
overlap of avoiding the onset of any of
these things to begin with but even the
services available in the US were
shockingly sparse and then of the
clinics in the states that would even
offer services relevant in the sphere of
hormone replacement were cookie cutter
almost like not pill Mills but very
representative of that structure whereby
it was clear their desire and incentive
was not to oversee you with high quality
care but more to get you on medications
and keep you on them and just
essentially make their money on
prescriptions so they would tell you
even if you had a transient blip in your
testosterone levels as a late 20s you
should be on trt and here's seven
medications to go with it that you also
need to be on to handle the side effects
of the the testosterone replacement
among myriads of peptides and other
things that sometimes justifiable but
often times not and these cookie cutter
approaches were so prevalent and
unethical in my opinion that it
motivated me to seek out uh like an
entrepreneurial like for me that was a
lot of my motivation to start this
company to begin with is how long ago
how long how long ago did you start mer
Health um I think it is coming on three
years now oh yeah yeah and so what scale
of Enterprise is it now um it's without
speaking to numbers it's uh it's doing
quite well and it is and when I say
quite well it's not just from a monetary
like it's also very rewarding and this
is why I actually spend so much time on
it and imp passionate about it is we are
imparting a service that is of value
that is of un I I think it's
unquantifiable value being able to
prevent disease and optimize performance
but also knowing that the medical
providers that work for us are ones that
have been vetted through our
clinical uh Acumen vetting process by
which they actually reflect the level of
um education that we deem to be
worthwhile to work with our clients to
begin with so we have like a really
rigorous process are they're committed
to the process they're committed to idea
of preventative medicine this is what to
me was the most incentivizing component
of it is being able to vet the medical
providers and actually ensure we have
individuals who are as passionate about
further educating themselves so similar
to me where I would read on updated
literature stay up to date with anything
to do with Endocrinology hormone
optimization performance Vitality
offsetting so that's their fun now are
the so is that now the fundamental focus
of the medical professionals that you
are what alligned with that you've hired
like what is your relationship with the
Physicians some of them have Specialties
like we have uh an Advisory board and
some of them are you know cardiologist
Specialties some are this some are that
some are more broad spectrum we have a a
foot doctor as well some of these
individuals though many if they make it
into our company to begin with are
individuals who have shown the
discipline to and actual enthusiasm to
stay educated and continue past the
point of um becoming medically
credential to actually work with
patients what and what's your finan like
what's what's the financial arrangement
with them how like how are the medical
professionals allied with your company
so it's structured in a way that
essentially we are connecting the right
clients with the right doctors so it's
right so you're an intermediary
essentially yeah so it's not like I I'm
not playing doctor certainly not the
case it's we're finding doctors that
reflect what I believe to be and our
team has vetted to be the highest level
of applicant that is staying up to date
actually's the diagnostic process like
if someone wants to start using your
your company what would that entail for
them what what can they expect or look
forward to so in general there's going
to be
a somewhat lengthy depending on what you
deem to be lengthy for medical
assessment but uh intake questionnaire
where we will ask for information on
current lifestyle practices diet
medication supplements try to get the
full gamut of information family history
that we can then use to have a more
informed assessment of the Diagnostics
that we would be getting so further to
that after we have some sort of Baseline
historical reference points and
benchmarks we can use that as context to
help guide our interpretations of the
diagnostic analysis process so we have
very comprehensive blood work
and this is one of the areas I pride our
company on is that we use markers that
are the most uh validated and accurate
to reflect the sought-after assessment
of that organ's function so for example
when it comes to assessing uh
atherosclerosis potential there is
certain more advanced metrics like APO
lipoprotein B which reflect um
essentially atherogenic potential as a
whole in the body rather than just just
looking at ldlc or hdlc we far more um
it's not like this is an advanced metric
it's just not yet mainstream enough to
be adopted by the masses so typically
when you get a you know cardiovascular
risk assessment you might get your blood
pressure checked once in the office and
you might have you know White Coat
Syndrome or they will not tell you to go
check it again and get averages at home
yeah right which is super important by
the way one of the lowest hanging fruit
things is blood pressure but above and
beyond that having metrics that actually
reflect cumulative risk or even genetic
predispositions like LP little a is
something that even if you have a normal
looking lipid panel you could have a
Skyhigh lipoprotein little a which
reflects a genetic predisposition that
is not manipulatable through diet
interventions so that is something that
if this is underlying it'll insidiously
potentially inhance your cardiovascular
disease risk significantly so and it is
almost never tested for so these are
things that again why we're so
passionate about what we do is we're the
ones trying to stay and it's not like
other people don't do this but I feel
it's more rare than those who get the
credentials and maybe cruise control on
them so if someone's concerned about
their health they go to the meric Health
Website they then what do they have to
do to to follow up to follow along with
this procedure um in general it will be
getting a intake assessment by which you
will get a physical blood pressure
assessment family history where do
people go to do that it depends where
you live because you might have to go to
a um you know an in-person drop in and
get a physical done that meets the
metrics of criteria we deem adequate to
actually work with us and then above and
beyond that we have an analysis of blood
biomarkers and potentially saliva urine
depending on what we deem necessary to
get a comprehensive picture of your
current health status and big cognizant
into the fact that this is just a
snapshot in time it's not reflective of
everything so that is where we get more
data to pull from contextually with the
existing questionnaire the physical Etc
to make a more informed assessment for
path forward what can we do and why are
you in the state you're in right now do
you have any issues what is the root of
them do you have any symptoms what so
rather than assuming Health
except when it deviates in illness and
than going to the doctor because you're
ill you're set an organization where you
can work in tandem with the doctor to
not get sick to begin with but more than
that not just to not get sick but to
optimize your function it's really a
different model of what constitutes the
medical especially now yeah one of what
constitutes the medical model one of our
I suppose Specialties of sorts and kind
of what led me down the rabbit hole
above and beyond the motivations of self
uh diagnostic evaluation family Etc it
was also that bodybuilders are dropping
dead left right and Center at a very
young age and often it is attributed to
anabolic steroid use which is partially
the case for sure but a lot of these
individuals and those in highlevel sport
will be exposing themselves to these
drugs regardless of the fact that it's
detrimental to their lifespan and being
able to oversee Elite athletes with
educated medical providers who
themselves understand the context behind
why they're using what they're using and
aren't going to judge them and shun them
accordingly because a lot of some
there's a fine line between misusing
substances to cheat and optimizing your
nutrition and your your dietary intake
in every possible way to maximize your
performance and there's going to be some
vicious overlap there absolutely
especially as the Technologies transform
yeah so while we do work with those who
are seeking to optimize we also have the
high- Performing bodybuilder who
inevitably will be shortening their
lifespan with what they're exposing
themselves to but they need somebody
who's non-judgmental and very educated
about what they're using in order to
attenuate the damage as much as possible
and that's where some of our medical
providers will provide a non-judgmental
environment to actually oversee them to
assess that they are doing the not
encouraging use by any means yeah but
also not shunning them from access as
they're serving counselors and and
Consultants because at the end of the
day a lot of these sports that are drugg
to the gills will exist regardless if
they have a medical provider or not and
getting them access to somebody who will
try and attenuate the damage is of
critical importance to avoid especially
in the fitness industry and this is so
what proportion of your clients do you
suppose fall into the category of the
typical person so to speak who's looking
at optimizing health and performance
across time and in contrast to the more
Elite and competitive types who are
looking
to well to compete and to compete in a
manner that allows them to win let's say
but also to sustain that across time
yeah and and by the way to clarify we're
not condoning cheating this is in sports
or it's not tested so um in general the
majority of our clients are still those
who are seeking to optimize and enhance
quality of life Vitality lifespan all
metrics of health and performance and
are the Layman uh who is seeking just a
highlevel medical provider who
understands um The Cutting Eng
information stays on top of it the elite
athlete is more of a a minority well
that makes sense they're rare okay so
let me maybe we'll close with this
question so
you've it's been seven years really
since you've been diving into this
that's not very long right and so that's
a lot of transfer in a short period of
time so now if you're looking 5 years
down the road let's say um What fields
of opportunity do you see opening up for
yourself how how would you like things
to continue and what do you hope to
offer the people well what do you hope
to offer on the economic and and moral
front let's say as you continue moving
forward um I suppose for me I guess
fortunately I feel I have found my
calling and as
all I want to do is scale it as much as
I can to be able to influence and
educate as at high of a scale as
possible because I feel as much as
candidly some of these things are have a
monetary incentive and you need to
that's not a bad thing yeah being candid
about that I think is one of the things
that distinguishes why bother selling to
people who don't want to buy yeah it's
not helpful but I'm very passionate
about the products and services we bring
and also the education parting that is
free at scale two and being able to
maximize my efficiency and quality of
output as long as I'm doing that and
feel like I haven't left anything on the
table that is where I want to be in five
years I don't know yeah so it's it's
this still it's the same pathway but
further further differentiation and
development yeah and just bringing
awareness and education best place for
people to follow you is is that YouTube
would you say I would say YouTube more
plates more dates any of the platforms
and Mer health.com if you want to get
high quality medical oversight
Diagnostics analysis Etc all right sir
well thank you very much for walking us
through all that very useful on the
career development and the on the on the
on the what would you say and also with
regards to providing people with
information about how they can switch
from a disease cure orientation to a
health enhancement orientation which is
something it would be lovely to see the
entire medical establishment move in
that direction and perhaps they will
there's some promises signs on that
front I'm going to continue to talk with
Derek for another half an hour on the
daily wire side as most of you watching
and listening already know so if you're
inclined to join us there please do so
um throw some support the daily wire way
they're a good Bastion in the um in the
fight for free speech which is ongoing
and intensifying as we all sit here and
watch um so thank you very much sir it
was very thank you for coming in today
all the way from Vancouver that's much
appreciated it's very nice to do these
things in person and and to everyone
watching and listening thank thank you
very much for your time and attention
and to the Daily wire folks for
facilitating these conversations and
making them possible much appreciated
thanks again sir thank
[Music]
you